Update PASQAL quickstart documentation (#659)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs: articles/quickstart-microsoft-provider-format.md

    import pulser
except ImportError:
    !pip -q install pulser
```

#### Create a quantum register

> 1. Fresnel is the first PASQAL commercial neutral atoms quantum computer that you can target for your quantum jobs. To configure your quantum registers, you arrange an array of qubits. FRESNEL provides predefined trap layouts that you must utilize to create your quantum register.

Reviewer: Is it Fresnel, FRESNEL, or Fresnel1? According to the docs, we have [Fresnel1](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/quantum/provider-pasqal#fresnel1)

> 1. Fresnel is the first PASQAL commercial neutral atoms quantum computer that you can target for your quantum jobs. To configure your quantum registers, you arrange an array of qubits. FRESNEL provides predefined trap layouts that you must utilize to create your quantum register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Fresnel is the first PASQAL commercial neutral atoms quantum computer that you can target for your quantum jobs. To configure your quantum registers, you arrange an array of qubits. FRESNEL provides predefined trap layouts that you can utilize to create your quantum register.
```

    ```python
    from pulser_pasqal import PasqalCloud

    devices = PasqalCloud().fetch_available_devices()
    QPU = devices["FRESNEL"]

    # List all available calibrated register layouts
    for calibrated_register_layout in QPU.calibrated_register_layouts.keys():
        print(calibrated_register_layout)
    ```

> 2. In this example, we will be using `TriangularLatticeLayout(61, 5.0µm)` as the trap layout. You can visualize the chosen layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Next, you define the layout for your qubit register. In this example, you use a `TriangularLatticeLayout(61, 5.0µm)` as the trap layout. 
```

    ```python
    layout = QPU.calibrated_register_layouts[
        "TriangularLatticeLayout(61, 5.0µm)"
    ]
    layout.draw()
    ````

>     :::image type="content" source="media/provider-format-pasqal-layout.png" alt-text="Trap layout":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following image shows the display of the chosen layout. 
    
    :::image type="content" source="media/provider-format-pasqal-layout.png" alt-text="Diagram of the layout chosen for the qubit register. The layout shows 60 points in an array of 40 times 30 micrometers.":::
```

> 3. In this example we will select 7 traps using their ids to define a quantum register of 7 qubits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Then, you define the qubit register selecting a set of traps from the layout. In this example, the layout has 60 traps and you select 7 traps using their ids to define a quantum register of 7 qubits.
```

    ```python
    reg = layout.define_register(*[30, 21, 26, 35, 39, 34, 25])
    reg.draw()
    ```

>     :::image type="content" source="media/provider-format-pasqal-register.png" alt-text="Quantum register":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following image shows the final display of the qubit register.
    
    :::image type="content" source="media/provider-format-pasqal-register.png" alt-text="Diagram showing the final quantum register after selecting 7 points from the 60 point-layout.":::
```

#### Write a pulse sequence

The neutral atoms are controlled with laser pulses. The Pulser SDK allows you to create pulse sequences to apply to the quantum register.

> 1. Define the pulse sequence attributes by declaring the channels that will be used to control the atoms. For example, the following code declares one channel: `ch0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First,  you define the pulse sequence attributes by declaring the channels that will be used to control the atoms. To create a `Sequence`, you need to provide a `Register` instance along with the device where the sequence will be executed. For example, the following code declares one channel: `ch0`.
```

> - To create a Sequence, you need to provide a Register instance along with the device where the sequence will be executed. You can use the Fresnel QPU device we created earlier or import a virtual device from Pulser for more flexibility. The use of a VirtualDevice allows for sequence creation that is less constrained by device specifications, making it suitable for execution on an emulator. For more information, refer to the [Pulser documentation](https://pulser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/creating.html#2.-Initializing-the-Sequence).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > [!NOTE]
   > You can use the `QPU = devices["FRESNEL"]`  device or import a virtual device from Pulser for more flexibility. The use of a `VirtualDevice` allows for sequence creation that is less constrained by device specifications, making it suitable for execution on an emulator. For more information, see [Pulser documentation](https://pulser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/creating.html#2.-Initializing-the-Sequence).
```

    ```python
    from pulser import Sequence

    seq = Sequence(reg, QPU)
    # print the available channels for your sequence
    print(seq.available_channels)
    # Declare a channel. In this example we will be using `rydberg_global`
    seq.declare_channel("ch0", "rydberg_global")
    ```

2. Add pulses to your sequence. To do so, you create and add pulses to the channels you declared. For example, the following code creates a pulse and adds it to channel `ch0`.

    ```python
    from pulser import Pulse
    from pulser.waveforms import RampWaveform, BlackmanWaveform
    import numpy as np

    amp_wf = BlackmanWaveform(1000, np.pi)
    det_wf = RampWaveform(1000, -5, 5)
    pulse = Pulse(amp_wf, det_wf, 0)
    seq.add(pulse, "ch0")

    seq.draw()
    ```

>     :::image type="content" source="media/provider-format-pasqal-sequence.png" alt-text="Pulse sequence":::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following image shows the pulse sequence. 
    :::image type="content" source="media/provider-format-pasqal-sequence.png" alt-text="Pulse sequence":::
```

    import pulser
except ImportError:
    !pip -q install pulser
```

#### Create a quantum register

> 1. First, you create a 'devices' object to import the PASQAL quantum computer target, Fresnel. FRESNEL provides predefined trap layouts that you can utilize to create your quantum register. To configure your quantum registers, you arrange an array of qubits.

Reviewer: Is it Fresnel, FRESNEL, or Fresnel1? Our docs show [Fresnel1](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/quantum/provider-pasqal#fresnel1)

   > You can use the `QPU = devices["FRESNEL"]`  device or import a virtual device from Pulser for more flexibility. The use of a `VirtualDevice` allows for sequence creation that is less constrained by device specifications, making it suitable for execution on an emulator. For more information, see [Pulser documentation](https://pulser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/creating.html#2.-Initializing-the-Sequence).

    ```python
    from pulser import Sequence

    seq = Sequence(reg, QPU)
    # print the available channels for your sequence
    print(seq.available_channels)
    # Declare a channel. In this example we will be using `rydberg_global`
    seq.declare_channel("ch0", "rydberg_global")
    ```

1. Add pulses to your sequence. To do so, you create and add pulses to the channels you declared. For example, the following code creates a pulse and adds it to channel `ch0`.

    ```python
    from pulser import Pulse
    from pulser.waveforms import RampWaveform, BlackmanWaveform
    import numpy as np

    amp_wf = BlackmanWaveform(1000, np.pi)
    det_wf = RampWaveform(1000, -5, 5)
    pulse = Pulse(amp_wf, det_wf, 0)
    seq.add(pulse, "ch0")

    seq.draw()
    ```

>     The following image shows the pulse sequence. 

Reviewer: Could you describe a bit the pulse sequence image?

            input_data=prepare_input_data(seq), # Take the JSON string previously defined as input data
            input_data_format="pasqal.pulser.v1",
            output_data_format="pasqal.pulser-results.v1",
            name="PASQAL sequence",
            shots=shots # Number of shots
        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.

    ```python
    target = workspace.get_targets(name="pasqal.sim.emu-tn") # Change to "pasqal.qpu.fresnel" to use Fresnel QPU
    job = submit_job(target, seq, 10)

    job.wait_until_completed()
    print(f"Job completed with state: {job.details.status}")
    result = job.get_results()
    print(result)
    ```

    ```output
    {
        "1000000": 3, 
        "0010000": 1, 
        "0010101": 1
    }
    ```

#### Explore Advanced Emulator Features

> [PASQAL's emulator](xref:microsoft.quantum.providers.pasqal#emulator) offers advanced features that are not yet supported by Fresnel QPU:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PASQAL's emulator](xref:microsoft.quantum.providers.pasqal#emulator) offers advanced features that are not yet supported by Fresnel QPU. You can organize your register in a custom way without any limitations from the pre-calibrated layouts. For example, the following code creates a 4x4 square lattice of qubits:
```

##### Custom register

You can organize your register in a custom way without any limitations from the pre-calibrated layouts. For example, the following code creates a 4x4 square lattice of qubits: 

> - For example, the following code creates a 4x4 square lattice of qubits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

            output_data_format="pasqal.pulser-results.v1",
            name="PASQAL sequence",
            shots=shots # Number of shots
        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.

    ```python
    target = workspace.get_targets(name="pasqal.sim.emu-tn") # Change to "pasqal.qpu.fresnel" to use Fresnel QPU
    job = submit_job(target, seq, 10)

    job.wait_until_completed()
    print(f"Job completed with state: {job.details.status}")
    result = job.get_results()
    print(result)
    ```

    ```output
    {
        "1000000": 3, 
        "0010000": 1, 
        "0010101": 1
    }
    ```

#### Explore Advanced Emulator Features
[PASQAL's emulator](xref:microsoft.quantum.providers.pasqal#emulator) offers advanced features that are not yet supported by Fresnel QPU:

> ##### Custom register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> You can organize your register in a custom way without any limitations from the pre-calibrated layouts. For example, the following code creates a 4x4 square lattice of qubits: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.

    ```python
    target = workspace.get_targets(name="pasqal.sim.emu-tn") # Change to "pasqal.qpu.fresnel" to use Fresnel QPU
    job = submit_job(target, seq, 10)

    job.wait_until_completed()
    print(f"Job completed with state: {job.details.status}")
    result = job.get_results()
    print(result)
    ```

    ```output
    {
        "1000000": 3, 
        "0010000": 1, 
        "0010101": 1
    }
    ```

#### Explore Advanced Emulator Features
Our emulators offer advanced features that are not yet supported by Pasqal's QPU:

##### Custom register

You can organize your register in a custom way without any limitations from the pre-calibrated layouts. For example, the following code creates a 4x4 square lattice of qubits: 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    ```python
    # Submit the job with proper input and output data formats
    def submit_job(target, seq, shots):
        job = target.submit(
            input_data=prepare_input_data(seq), # Take the JSON string previously defined as input data
            input_data_format="pasqal.pulser.v1",
            output_data_format="pasqal.pulser-results.v1",
            name="PASQAL sequence",
            shots=shots # Number of shots
        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

> 1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator  `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.
```

    ```python
    target = workspace.get_targets(name="pasqal.sim.emu-tn") # Change to "pasqal.qpu.fresnel" to use Fresnel QPU
    job = submit_job(target, seq, 10)

    job.wait_until_completed()
    print(f"Job completed with state: {job.details.status}")
    result = job.get_results()
    print(result)
    ```

    ```output
    {
        "1000000": 3, 
        "0010000": 1, 
        "0010101": 1
    }
    ```

#### Explore Advanced Emulator Features

> Our emulators offer advanced features that are not yet supported by Pasqal's QPU:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PASQAL's emulator](xref:microsoft.quantum.providers.pasqal#emulator) offers advanced features that are not yet supported by Fresnel QPU:
```

##### Custom register

> Organize your register in a custom way without any limitations from the pre-calibrated layouts. Note that this feature will soon be available on FRESNEL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

You can organize your register in a custom way without any limitations from the pre-calibrated layouts. For example, the following code creates a 4x4 square lattice of qubits: 
```

    ```python
    # Submit the job with proper input and output data formats
    def submit_job(target, seq, shots):
        job = target.submit(
            input_data=prepare_input_data(seq), # Take the JSON string previously defined as input data
            input_data_format="pasqal.pulser.v1",
            output_data_format="pasqal.pulser-results.v1",
            name="PASQAL sequence",
            shots=shots # Number of shots
        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator  `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.

> - Emulator target name = `pasqal.sim.emu-tn`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    ```python
    # Submit the job with proper input and output data formats
    def submit_job(target, seq, shots):
        job = target.submit(
            input_data=prepare_input_data(seq), # Take the JSON string previously defined as input data
            input_data_format="pasqal.pulser.v1",
            output_data_format="pasqal.pulser-results.v1",
            name="PASQAL sequence",
            shots=shots # Number of shots
        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator  `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.

> - QPU target name = `pasqal.qpu.fresnel`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Emulator target name = `pasqal.sim.emu-tn`

    ```python

>     target = workspace.get_targets(name="pasqal.sim.emu-tn")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    target = workspace.get_targets(name="pasqal.sim.emu-tn") # Change to "pasqal.qpu.fresnel" to use Fresnel QPU
```

    ```python
    # Submit the job with proper input and output data formats
    def submit_job(target, seq, shots):
        job = target.submit(
            input_data=prepare_input_data(seq), # Take the JSON string previously defined as input data
            input_data_format="pasqal.pulser.v1",
            output_data_format="pasqal.pulser-results.v1",
            name="PASQAL sequence",
            shots=shots # Number of shots
        )

        print(f"Queued job: {job.id}")
        return job
    ```

    > [!NOTE]
    > The time required to run a job on the QPU depends on current queue times. You can view the average queue time for a target by selecting the **Providers** blade of your workspace.

> 2. Submit the program to PASQAL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Submit the program to PASQAL. Before submitting your code to real quantum hardware, you can test your code using the emulator  `pasqal.sim.emu-tn` as a target.
```

> If this is your first time submitting a job, we encourage you to test your code using the emulator as a target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
